*sangman plays in the background*
Hello and welcome to another episode of no such thing as a fish, a weekly podcast coming
to you from the QI offices in Covent Garden.
My name is Dan Schreiber, I am sitting here with Andrew Hunter Murray, Anna Chazinski and
James Harkin, and once again we have gathered around the microphones with our four
favorite facts from the last seven days, and in no particular order, here we go. Starting
with you, James.
Okay, my fight this week is that the Mulan Rouge had a can-can dancer who would distract
patrons by kicking off their hats before promptly downing their drinks.
It's such a good trick, it's a dangerous trick, because you might just kick someone
in the face and then- I was thinking of the alcohol poisoning, but yes, these were problems.
But actually the kicking in the face thing, that was one thing that the can-can dancers
would do is deliberately pretend that they were going to kick someone in the face. If they
were taking too many liberties on the front row, they would kind of do a kick that got
quite close to their face, and so that was the thing they did. And that's for the alcohol
poisoning, unfortunately this lady called Lat Gulu, otherwise known as Louise Weber, unfortunately
she did in the end succumb to the drink.
So this fact came to me from text, text message, when we were on tour last week, and it came
from someone called Sarah Fung who I texted this morning, and she's allowed me to use it.
She's just as well, because you guys had already researched it.
But this lady called Lat Gulu, she was amazing, she was the highest paid entertainer of her
day, and she was basically the Mulan Rouge personified.
She was the La Gulu means the Glotten, and yeah, she used to down, people's drinks, or swipe
their chicken drumsticks from them apparently, and drumsticks at the Mulan Rouge.
It's surprising, isn't it? It feels like more Fernando's kind of survive, but apparently
they were very sexy in the olden days. So she had various other methods of distraction.
She had a parrot, a pet parrot, a little pet goat that she kept on a lead.
In the Mulan Rouge?
In the Mulan Rouge, well I think often you are sort of wandering around, maybe you're
going to parties, how does having a parrot help you steal food?
Well, if anyone's distracted, yeah, it's just this whole woman's career, it sounds like
an excuse to get more food.
Yeah, she was the Glotten.
Do you know what? She had a lover whose name was Lamon Frommage, the cheesy girl.
That was the name of her own friend.
That's like a preview of the cheeky girls, very much more French, cheesy girls.
That's my bum, no effects. Although actually La Goulou, so to interrupt Andy, but La Goulou,
one other thing that she used to do to distract people is she would bend over, show her knickers
and she would have a big red heart on her knickers, and that was like one of her kind of
signature move.
Yeah, exactly.
We've all got one.
People had amazing names, and another of the dancers was nicknamed Greedegou, which means
"suagrating". Oh, nice. So it was Certric. I don't know. Do you know why she was called
that?
No, I don't.
It was like a teeth.
Yeah, she had really gaps in her teeth, that was cool.
This is great. This is like WWF. They've all got a character, a signature move.
It's all real, as well. It's all real.
Yeah.
There was another one called "Nini Le Pat" on there, which means "Nini Legs Aloft".
Legs in the hernini.
It feels like that described all of them.
Yes, it does, apart from the "Nini" bit.
It was basically their thing, was throwing their legs up as high in the air as they could,
wasn't it?
The French can can.
Yeah.
Invented the Moulin Rouge.
So "Vaber" or "Weber"? I guess it looks like a German name, but she was French.
She had a dance partner, who was called Jacques Renardin, aka "Valentant La Desaussée",
which means "the boneless".
And he wasn't successful, sir.
Amazing.
Every time he threw his legs in the air, they just plopped all the time, like a jelly.
Well, no.
I think he was very flexible, which being boneless does make you.
And I don't think he was literally boneless, but he danced at the Moulin Rouge as well, but
he never accepted a single cent for it.
This is...
Oh, really?
Yeah.
What was he independently wealthy?
I just did it for fun.
No one knows about his background, and no, he wasn't independently wealthy.
He just loved dancing so much.
He just looked guilty.
Who's that?
It's being a boneless people.
Have you guys ever had a Captain Frodo?
No.
Some larger rings.
A Captain Frodo.
Slightly different.
I think he's...
Oh, he's from Summer in Scandinavia, but this is a modern cabaret performer.
He performs in a show called "La Clique", which is really amazing.
Yeah, yeah.
And his trick is that he can fit his entire body through a tennis racket.
Oh, I have time.
I've seen that.
In fact, he's got two tennis rackets.
One is ten inches, you know, from the base of the head to the top of the head.
And the other one is eight inches from the base to the top, and he gets through both
of them at the same time.
Does the other one...
Does he like dislocate?
His shoulders are some...
Very much so.
He dislocates everything in his body.
It's incredible.
Yeah.
And they do take the strings off, don't they?
(LAUGHTER)
Yeah, they do.
I was just thinking of one more boneless thing, and there was an Ivan the boneless.
Wasn't there in the...
In the sagas, I think.
Mm-hmm.
My favourite cartoon character in all existence is boneless chicken from Caron Chicken.
I'm so glad we're finally talking about boneless things after five and a half years.
Why is he called boneless?
He has no boneless.
And his whole character is just...
He turns up in about one and every six episodes.
And he's just like a flop-lump of skin, literally over a chair, a table all along the floor.
And they're like, "Oh, hey, Uncle Boneless chicken's come to stay again."
"Hey, Uncle."
And then he's just like, "Ahh."
(LAUGHTER)
So another performer at the Mulan Rouge is someone who's an old friend of the podcast.
We've spoken about him a few times.
What?
Everard Diggby.
Not Everard Diggby.
I say you're old Fred.
We've mentioned him probably twice.
Um, Le Patamaine.
Oh.
The French fighter.
He was a headline act at the Mulan Rouge.
Well, see.
You don't have to go on stage after him, do you?
(LAUGHTER)
Yeah.
That's what you'd go up.
And I don't know how it worked if we've mic'd, because I picture the Mulan Rouge, as you say,
like people are walking around with goats, you know?
How are you going to hear?
(LAUGHTER)
But he did do stage stuff, didn't he?
He did do stage stuff, yeah.
But I suppose usually he'd be in a quiet auditorium.
I see a point where, as you know, a lot is mingling, noise.
It must have been mic'd up.
It's not that sexy, is it, given that the Mulan Rouge was supposed to be a little bit
raunchy.
I don't know if fasting is sexy, but it might have been back then.
Some people are france.
(LAUGHTER)
Do you know one sexy thing they did have, they had a massive wooden elephant in their garden?
Oh, yeah.
And so that's in the film, because there was a recent film about it.
But I did.
Do you mean the film in the Mulan Rouge?
Yeah.
Well, did they come out last year?
90.
Yeah, yeah.
It must have been last year.
It can't be more than last year.
A couple of years, I think.
Okay.
I think I'm going to live between the invention of film and now, it's in the most recent
myth, I would say.
(LAUGHTER)
So it's a recent film.
Just.
It's just in the fifth.
This is completely irrelevant.
The point is, I don't know if they mentioned this in the recent film.
But it had a room in its belly for intimate dancers.
Did it?
So you would have belly dancers for sort of an exclusively male clientele in there.
Belly belly dancers.
Yes.
Exactly.
So cool.
It's a bit sexy in the main club.
You'd say, hey, you want to take this to the elephant?
Sure.
Should I bring the goat?
(LAUGHTER)
Do you know how old you have to be to go to the Mulan Rouge?
What today?
Yeah.
I would guess 18.
Younger.
Wow.
14.
Younger.
No.
Minus age.
Six years old.
(LAUGHTER)
Children from the age of six are now permitted to attend the uncensored evening shows, according
to their website.
Wow.
But even in the 1950s, they had a children's matinee every Sunday.
What?
So in the afternoon on Sunday, all the kids could go there and watch it, but all their dancers
were much more covered up.
So they got the idea of being at the Mulan Rouge, but without the sexiness.
So the elephant was closed off for the afternoon?
(LAUGHTER)
There's no elephant in the room.
That's a shame, because a massive wooden elephant would be the thing I, as a sexier
old, would want to see, rather than a load of dancing girls at the edge of sex.
I agree.
Something else they had in the garden that was very good for children, if they'd attended,
was donkey rides.
So not a thing you usually see in nightclubs anymore.
(LAUGHTER)
I don't know.
The last time I went, which was quite recent.
(LAUGHTER)
You got there in a horse and cart, didn't you?
Yeah, they used to do donkey rides around the garden.
It was a pleasure garden, which someone described at the time as a pleasure garden with small
enclosures for dalliances.
And the girls used to be allowed on the donkeys so they could sort of hitch up their skirts
and show off their legs.
It was very exciting seeing people's legs at this time, so it was starting the 1880s, didn't
it?
I'm still excited.
Sorry Andy, no, we're looking at each other.
It's still exciting to see legs.
Okay.
So again, we're a very old-fashioned group here.
(LAUGHTER)
You were established.
I was mean to say something.
You were showing your ankles this morning.
(LAUGHTER)
I've mentioned it to HR.
I thought pedal pushers were acceptable these days.
No, it was, because you hadn't really seen women's legs.
They used to wear big skirts that went down to the ground, or at least you'd only just see
a bit of ankle.
And suddenly, they're doing the can-can, which is exposing their upper thighs.
And yeah, it became the main attraction, really.
And police used to go and check they were wearing underwear, so they'd come to the Moulin Rouge
to watch, well, I bet they were gagging for that job all of a sudden.
I was going to say that is better than office work, isn't it?
As a policeman.
It's a, yeah, it's a good gig.
That's a pretty good gig.
No, they did tend to wear underwear.
They would have said you're nicked if they had to carry out arrests.
Yeah, yeah.
Very good.
The Moulin Rouge has quite a few Guinness World Records.
Okay.
Yeah, specifically for can-can.
So they have the most circular French can-can-kicks, they did 29 in 30 seconds, so they did this outside
of the Moulin Rouge.
Circular can-c.
I think.
So it's...
I imagine it's when you go, you kick your leg out to the left, and it goes all the way
around, and I'm like...
A bit like a roundhouse kick.
Yeah, exactly.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
You're waving, but with your leg.
Hmm.
Yeah.
So they're in another record that they have.
There's a can-can soloist.
He's a Greek guy, and he's got the record for most high kicking behind his head, which he
did 30 times in 30 seconds.
Now, I don't know if that means the kick goes...
No, I would say it goes for...
So, Dan was just pushing back with his arm, but I would say that it goes in the normal
can-can fashion, but maybe the foot ends up behind your ear.
Behind your ear.
Yeah.
So 30 times in 30 seconds.
He could kick off his own hat.
The can-can was for men and women, originally.
It was a men and women's dance, and it was the men did all the high kicks.
The women didn't do any.
And then...
And the really shocking thing about it was that there was lots of bodily contact between
the partners doing it.
And then the women started joining in the high kicks, and people noticed that, oh, this
is really sexy, partly because women wore open-croached pantalettes in the 19th century.
Not just partly, mainly.
I would say that's why it's sexy.
That's mainly what...
Yeah, absolutely, yeah.
So, they then thought, oh, this is much better than watching a load of men just leaping
around all the corners of the stage, and that's how it got its salacious reputation.
Did they really...
So, when they did the can-can at certain points, they must have had underwear under that,
right?
They weren't flashing their vaginas in the mid-19th century.
I think they were.
Yeah, I think they were.
They were.
I think they were.
In the, like, not in the mill on Rouge, but, I think, in the...
In a realm on March, in, like, other...
I see.
In the sort of, the spin off...
Yeah, they definitely weren't in the mill on Rouge, the mill on Rouge was very strict
about pants, actually.
Was it?
Yeah, yeah, it was.
They were very strict on that.
But, okay, there was spin-off to CDA places.
Because I think if they were never doing that, there'd be no point having the police there.
The police would have been just basically checking people's knickers for no reason whatsoever.
I know, you mean...
Yeah, yeah, you're right.
There must have been a couple of people who maybe forgot.
Really?
Maybe forgot.
Yeah, we all forget about pants some days.
We all do.
It really makes the police sound, like, creepy gym teachers checking everyone's wearing
the regulation under pants.
Oh, you had a rough time at school, didn't you, Andy?
No.
That's a sad cry, isn't it?
Memories are flooding in there.
They've lost it.
I don't know what you're talking about.
So, I read about one accident in the mill on Rouge that happened.
This was in 1899, and there was a British newspaper.
I was looking at this up actually in the British newspaper archive, and the tone with which British
newspapers report on it is so funny, because they basically, they're not outraged by it.
They don't think it's salacious and gross.
They basically go, "Oh, this isn't nearly as fun as our music calls."
All the articles say, "I went there, and it was just massively overly hyped, and it wasn't
a big deal at all.
Didn't fancy anyone prefer to go to an opera."
But anyway, all these articles are like that.
And then there was one report that in 1899, a mill on Rouge dance actually died while
dancing her quadril, which was like the precursor to the cancan, because the dance ends with
her jumping really, really high in the air, spree in the air, and then landing flat on the
ground in the splits with her legs at right angles to each other.
Oh, no.
But apparently she did it so carelessly as to be injured fatally.
Wait, what does that mean?
I don't know.
It doesn't mean.
It sounds like you'd be torn apart.
What?
Is she like them?
Yeah.
Doesn't mean she had a ceiling fan in the air.
I don't think they exist.
It's like that, isn't it?
Oh, ceiling fans have been around for a long time, don't they?
Well, you get those punkers in India, don't you, which are the sort of big mats you hang
up, and then you sit in them.
It'd be hard to kill yourself against one of them.
Also, the only guy who goes to the mill on Rouge is looking at the ceiling fans.
It was the first place with electricity though, in France, wasn't it?
Well, they needed it to operate the ceiling fans, thank you.
They're probably a little doy ceiling fans, the main attraction, actually.
We've got to invent something that could make these ceiling fans work.
Just on scandalous dances, and the British press's reaction, so the Waltz was an earlier scandalous
precursor to the cancan.
It arrived in London at about 1790, but even 25 years later, it was still pretty shocking,
again, because you were very close to your partner.
An article in The Times wrote, "So long as this obscene display was confined to prostitutes
and adulteresses, we did not think it deserving of notice.
But now that it has attempted to be forced on the respectable classes of society, we feel
it is duty to warn every parent against exposing his daughter to so fatal a contagion."
That was the Waltz.
Wow.
Yeah.
I still feel that way about novels.
It's a novel.
You say novels.
Novels.
I thought it was some dance I had heard of.
Everyone's doing the novels.
Novels.
Just feel like something that you might do in Bolton, in the dance halls of Bolton, everyone
do the novel.
Because it does not feel like a Mulan Rouge kind of dance.
OK, it is time for fact number two.
And that is Andy.
My fact is that in 1959, as a publicity stunt, a three-ton block of ice was driven from
the Arctic Circle to the equator.
This is the craziest story.
Yeah.
It's insane.
So this was, I found this in an article on amusingplanet.com, which has brilliant articles
about all sorts of stuff on it.
And this was in the 1950s.
It was a stunt by a Norwegian firm, which was trying to show how good their insulating
glass wool was.
I didn't know about glass wool before, yeah.
But it was in response to a challenge on Radio Luxembourg.
In 1958, they challenged anyone.
They said, if you can take three tons of ice from the Arctic to the equator and it's verified,
we will give you 100,000 francs for every single kilo that remains when you get to the
equator.
Wow.
But the trick was you weren't allowed to use any refrigeration.
But you were allowed to use glass wool.
You were allowed to use glass wool.
And that prize was big.
That was the equivalent of $17,000 in modern money per kilo.
This is a big opportunity.
And how much did they get to the end?
Well, by the time it got to the end, it had lost 11% only of its weight.
So do we know how much they got?
How many kilos is left?
They got nothing.
It must have been about 2,700 kilos left.
Yeah.
It was a 3,050 kilo block that this firm did.
And they must have got about the modern day equivalent of $2 million or something.
Radio Luxembourg had retracted the offer when it paying clear how much money they were going
to lose.
Before they said offer, they retracted the offer very early.
But the manager of the glass that was so excited because they just wrapped up the block
of ice.
And they took loads of medicines with them.
So it wasn't a completely pointless trip and they just put this massive block of ice
on a truck.
Ice to the Sahara is not pointless anyway, right, it's you, at least useful.
That's true.
Although did they then distribute it around the Sahara for cocktails and stuff?
They did.
Yeah, they did.
They chopped it up into little blocks and they gave it to people who in the article says
had never seen ice before, really, ice blocks, you know, for people.
Although there was one thing where there was a documentary made about it and there were
pictures of camels drinking this fresh Norwegian water as if it was the greatest thing
in the world.
Actually, everything that they were drinking was full of glass wool and tar paper.
So it was really potable at all.
Do you know what happened to some of the ice?
Some of the ice was flown back to Oslo.
Really?
Yeah.
It was wrapped in presumably a smaller amount of glass wool and it was flown back to be given
to journalists in their drinks at the media reception in Oslo, all about this incredible
achievement.
That's really cool, isn't it?
Yeah.
To have a gin and tonic where the ice has been all the way to Africa and back.
It's incredible.
It's just to buy things that have flown halfway around the world.
It has the fifties as well.
Oh, there wasn't anything actually, so they had an all-right drive down to North Africa,
you know, and by the time they got to North Africa, they'd only lost four litres of water
out of 3,000 kilos on this block.
I mean, this glass wool stuff is really good.
But Algeria was in the middle of a civil war, so bad time for driving through.
There were no roads through the desert.
And they had to keep on getting out and digging it out, just digging the truck out of
the sand drift that it got into.
And the worst thing was, they had a very limited water supply, so they were really first
to do all the time they were driving at this point.
But they not just lick the blouse.
Three tons of ice.
Wow.
So disciplined, though, that they all refrained from looking in the ice.
They wouldn't even take a milliliter off it.
Oh, yeah.
Great.
Yeah.
Didn't they have to be guarded by the French for a legion at one point?
I think going through the Sahara Desert, they were guarded because of the guerrilla forces
in the Sahara that they thought might attack them.
Yes, I think Algeria was then in the process of stopping being French and starting to
be Algerian.
So I think that's why the French foreign leader might have been there.
What a lovely way of putting that very traumatic decolonisation of a country-period.
We're in this gradual transition phase.
And they did, as you say, they did take medicines with them.
So they ended up in gobbon at the end, and they brought a shed load of medicines and tons
and tons of medicines to deliver to the people.
They're not just a pierced ant.
Although predominantly.
Most pierced.
But actually, the idea of bringing ice from the north or the south and using it in warmer
climbs is quite a common idea through history, right?
I guess so.
It's one of your favourite things, Andy, about lasso-ing icebergs.
Oh, yeah.
This isn't for drinking it, but isn't it like when there's oil rigs or something?
Yes, it's to stop it hitting oil rigs.
I actually found up one of the iceberg lasso-ing men and interviewed him about it, or he was running
a company which does the satellite monitoring of icebergs because when I was drifting towards
an oil rig and if it crashes into an oil rig, that's big, big trouble.
And so they just have to go out and they put a rope all the way around it and they tow it
a little bit just for an hour or two, and then that pushes it into a different enough
direction that it's going to miss the rig.
So cool.
It's amazing.
They don't fully tow it to the equator, which would be a big job.
But that has been a thing that people have tried to do in history and actually people have
done that.
They've taken it from Antarctica up to places like Peru and where they used it for the
brewing industry and when they have droughts.
Yeah, we had to get the ice.
And you know they used, you mentioned oil platforms.
Russia actually uses ice as a drilling platform.
So this is this really cool kind of ice, which is a giant ice block called Nalleds, which
are basically ice blocks that form on rivers.
So ice that forms on rivers can be much thicker than ice that forms on lakes because if it's
cold enough, then the fourth of the water underneath the layer of ice pushes up in the
slightly warmer day time through it and runs on top of it and then it freezes overnight.
So you've got like a second layer and then the next day at the same thing happens again,
you've got a third layer where it's like a Russian doll.
It's like a Russian doll made of ice.
So you can get these huge like seven meter thick blocks of ice and they've been used for
things like the North Korean military.
I know we don't like to take tips from them, but the North Korean military used them to
build river crossings for their tanks in winter and Russia has drilling platforms made
of these giant ice blocks.
Sorry, do they move or can you move them around?
Can you turn them into place?
They pick them up.
Yeah, so they take them out of the thing.
Yeah, it's amazing because there was a plan to use them in Mongolia.
This is where I found out about them first.
In 2011, a plan for keeping Mongolia cool in summer.
So I thought Mongolia may not have a problem with being too cold, but Ulaanbatore gets
very hot in summer and so they said to regulate temperatures, reduce air con and provide drinking
water and irrigation.
They would take some of these huge blocks of ice and dump them in Ulaanbatore and gradually
let them melt through the summer and it was what they called an ice shield.
And this would sort them out and it was this plan.
They got like hundreds of thousands of dollars of funding and if anyone knows what the hell
happened to it, can you let me know?
I must have counted, I know.
Sorry, that is amazing.
So do you know whether it actually happened?
I have no idea.
It kept on saying they've got the funding.
They're doing this.
The plan's underway.
2011.
Zilch from here on in.
Oh, weird.
So on publicity stunts, Game of Thrones announced the premiere of their seventh season with
a block of ice.
What they did was they set up a large block of ice and then in front of it they put a camera
and they set up a Facebook live broadcast with the block of ice melting and if you typed
fire, I think this is how it worked, a little flame thrown near it would blast a small amount
of fire.
And as the big block of ice melted, it was going to reveal the date of the launch of the
series.
It's clever.
Unfortunately, it took a long time.
It took over an hour and everyone was typing fire and everyone was getting really frustrated.
Fans are, ice is really hard to melt, even if you even if you type dracaris, which is
a thing from the show and it means that multiple flames are as fired.
It still took more than an hour and then the live stream broke.
So they were just left with a big block of ice and eventually Game of Thrones just tweeted
the date that the series was coming up.
I can't believe Game of Thrones fans above anyone else couldn't be bothered to sit around
for one hour and wait for that.
Well, there was no nudity in that hour, so I don't think, yeah.
It should have been like one of those mugs that when it gets hot, shows a naked woman.
It should have been two shagging vikings that gradually appeared.
Have you ever seen it?
You've got a very good grasp of what was showing us.
Thanks very much.
I was looking up ice stunts as well.
Did you guys ever hear about the 2001 sort of ice contest launched by a Birmingham radio
station, which it was on, and he's looking horrified enough that he definitely knows about this.
It was BRMB radio station and basically it got this cool idea from a New Zealand website
which had run a similar competition and this site said that they'd, you got a block of ice
of ordinary ice and they'd had a contest to see how long contestants could sit on it and
the winner got the prize.
So this Birmingham radio station decided to do the same thing, but due to what was reported
as a breakdown in communications, they had people sit on a lump of dry ice, which, of course,
minus 78 degrees Celsius, it ended up, it was to win tickets to go and see Jerry Halleywell
and A1, which they ended up going, didn't they?
That's the worst thing I've ever had.
No, it landed three contestants in hospital for more than two months with severe frostbite.
They got permanent scarring, three of them had to have skin grafts and stuff.
And yes, severe burns.
The one who escaped with less serious burns only escaped with less serious burns because
she was wearing 14 pairs of pants.
Wow.
It's sort of the opposite of the Moulin Rouge before that.
It's a really bad story.
That is bad.
And the thing is there was a St John's ambulance team watching and they said, you know, you really
shouldn't sit there for longer than 10 minutes.
That would be dangerous.
And they were there for nearly an hour.
Still 10 minutes is too long.
Try it out, please.
It's minus.
It's insane.
How did one person not read like minus 78 degrees and say, this feels weird?
Well, eventually there was a massive legal case over it and the radio station was fined
15,000 pounds.
Yeah, pathetic.
Three people permanent scarring for life.
Wow.
Insane.
But they got to go to the concert.
Well, that's good.
Yeah.
And hopefully, although apparently it really hurt to sit down.
So you'd hope I suppose that they had a mosh pit.
Well, you wouldn't be sitting down to Jerry Hallowell and A1 gig.
You'd be on your feet the whole time.
Oh, you'd be being passed over the wave thing that people do in the audience with their
arms in the air.
Okay, guys.
Enough.
You know, the mosh pit.
Yeah.
What's it?
No, that's not what it's called.
Yeah, you'd be, um, you'd be cross, I think.
There you go.
Wow.
Do you remember David Blaine's ice thing?
Oh, yeah.
Not really.
Oh, this is before he went up over the river Tim's, yeah.
He spent 58 hours inside a block of ice in the year 2000.
Oh, that's right.
Yes.
Yeah, yeah.
He really hard.
Yeah, he did.
Yeah, he was sealed in to two blocks of ice with a body-shaped cocoon in the middle.
Right.
And he had a, he had a tube to breathe through.
And he could drink water.
I mean, he could drink water whenever he liked, I guess.
But this was good mostly because of all the other magicians immediately giving him
shit over it and being furious.
So Penn, half of Penn and Taylor said, pumping hot air into a phone booth and putting ice
around it and standing around without a thought in your head isn't a trick.
And a spokesman for David Copperfield said, a spokesman for David Copperfield said, if you
look at the physics of it, it's warmer than a downfilled sleeping bag in there.
Wow.
They were really loving it.
Yeah.
And they don't know he didn't have a thought in his head.
He could have been creating the next Shakespeare.
Yeah.
Or his next trick.
Like, I'm going to sit in a box next time.
Exactly.
You know, come up with that kind of genius I don't know where.
All good if he did lick the size and then your tongue got stuck to it.
Yeah.
Just how long was he there?
58 hours.
Just tongue stuck to the wall, everyone watching.
Okay, it is time for fact number three.
And that is Chizinski.
My fact this week is that prehistoric babies drank from animal shaped sippy cups.
And this is a recent discovery they've been doing some archaeology or checking out some
sort of graves that were dug up a while back.
And there are two, some Iron Age graves in Germany and a Bronze Age grave nearby.
And they both turned up in children's graves in like little toddlers and babies graves.
These vessels and they had spouts basically.
And they've looked at the proteins that are in them.
And it showed that they contained some kind of milk, either goat's milk or cow's milk
or something like that.
And it's really interesting because we didn't know that women weren't just breastfeeding
their children exclusively at that age.
And it turns out that they were obviously using cow's milk and stuff.
But they think it might be the cause of a big baby boom.
So the first baby boomers were prehistoric and they happened basically because people stopped
having to breastfeed their children for so long and so much because they maybe had these
sippy cups and they shared child care a bit more because they'd settled down into
the group communities.
And so when they weren't breastfeeding, they then menstruated a lot more and got pregnant
a lot more.
Had loads more kids.
It's all about the cups.
So it's a good news story.
It's a great news story.
It's a great story.
Yeah.
And just to clarify, in the fact, similar vessels have been found that are shaped like animals
in the same region.
So we now know that these animal shaped cups were used for babies.
Yeah.
Which makes sense.
What do I be right in saying?
It's not just a good news story.
It's a sort of seminal human existence story, right?
This is this is a big moment in how there was a big boom of life that came off the back
of it where suddenly we were farming humans, basically, not so as what you mean by that
is we were humans who found we were farming humans or that we were humans who were farming
humans.
Farmers that were human farming humans is what I mean because, yeah, because suddenly
you could you could have way more humans than you were capable of, which is one pair
of breath.
But I definitely went too far.
Yeah.
I've got a side.
It was out there.
I couldn't have got a cannibalism implication, I think.
What do you do?
I'm a human farmer.
But, yeah, collective parenting was a thing, you know, it's like you had crashes, basically.
And I think that it makes sense that you would have had crashes because they were presumably
going out into the fields to work.
And so you could leave one person to babysit the kids while everyone else went out to work.
Which, yeah, we didn't know.
It's quite cool how they detected the milk in the vessels as well.
Because it was essentially because they had these cups, but they weren't glazed.
And so it means they've got like tiny tiny little indentations in the surface that you
couldn't possibly see.
But they happened to be the perfect size, these little pores to fit fat molecules, lipid
molecules.
And so they've just filled in these little indentations.
Wow.
So we can just get them out and go, ah, it's a milk.
That's amazing.
The amount of technology you need to be able to do that compared to the amount of technology
you have to have a cup.
Yeah.
It's just so weird, isn't it?
They're better than those people.
No, I don't think so, really, because those kind of technologies finding tiny bits of lipids
is not going to cause a massive baby boomers.
You never know.
I just don't feel like it.
Maybe everyone will hear this.
Go home and shag tonight.
No, right.
It was a sexy fact.
But yeah, animal shaped cups have been a thing throughout history, actually, for adults
and children.
There was a Harvard Museum exhibit last year, which took them from all over the world.
It was like rounds and balls and lions.
And they came from ancient Greece and they came from Persia.
And yeah, they would have, like in Greece, they would have a donkey shaped cup, which I think
had the spout at the back end, so that it was the shape of a donkey's head, sorry, spout
at the back end.
So when you drank from the spout, it looked like you were wearing a donkey mask on your face.
Oh!
That's cool.
Really clever.
I remember.
They used to have human head shaped cups, as in they were actually made from human heads.
That was a thing.
Yeah, quite around the world, people have drunk out of human skulls.
But the oldest ones we have are from Somerset in England.
Oh!
Yeah, we were the origins of drinking out of human skulls.
Oh.
Wow.
Something to be proud of.
That's why my human farming knowledge has gone wrong.
Lord Byron had one of those.
Did he?
Yeah, he was very proud of his skull cup.
Yeah.
I think it was set in gold.
I think it was just the top of a skull, you know, it was the main bit.
And then he had a proper handle on it, a base.
Yeah, because you couldn't get the face in, because then it's full of holes, isn't it?
It's going to come out the eye.
Yeah.
Because I can only think of it as skull as being more like a saucer than anything else, I
suppose.
Yeah, but if you think about old cups, like, what do they have, what do they have on
grease, curries, or what it would call, they're more like sauces, aren't they?
Yeah.
That's true.
And you do have a very flat head, actually.
And I can see.
Well, it's more of a dinner plate.
Yeah.
There were, on Greek cups and receptacles and things like that, there were mixing balls
called crafters, craters, craters, and the Greek poet, Eubulus, wrote that after three craters
of wine, all the sensible guests go home and he was describing what happens next.
This is in a, I think, in a national geographical level.
With our parties, it's after three crates of wine.
Well, he said that the fifth crater leads to yelling, the sixth to prancing about, and
the seventh to black eyes.
The eighth brings the police, the ninth vomiting, the tenth insanity, and hurling the furniture.
That's really good.
I reckon that's a slightly different order to how we do it now.
It's essentially the same, but we've just slightly evolved to tweak it.
I think vomiting actually comes before black eyes now, and I think police comes less.
Yeah, exactly.
Unless they've gone involved, because there's at least two more sessions there, because,
you know, you wouldn't get the police just for yelling or for prancing about.
Maybe from black eyes, but insanity and hurling the furniture is a definite public order
of fence.
Yeah, yeah.
You're right.
And as you say, once the police have come, the party's shut down.
It's weird.
So, in fact, under what circumstances do the police come, and then leave, and then the
furniture hurling happens?
Yeah, sure.
Terrible police forces.
In the Persian Empire, they had, like, cool, fun-shaped cups.
And if you threw a banquet, if they came through a banquet or something, then everyone
would get a different animal-shaped cup, and you took it home at the end of the night.
Like a party back.
That's really awesome.
You're good, isn't it?
Yeah.
But quite it's quite an expensive habit.
Did you say it was the king of Persia doing it?
Yeah, so he could have fallen for all of it, too, yeah?
I've got some stuff on children looking after children and feeding children.
Yeah, I do, too, yeah.
And so, the first infant formula, like a powdered food for babies, was invented by a guy
called Justice von Liebig in 1865.
And he is also the man who basically invented oxal cubes and mermaids.
Wow.
Isn't that cool?
He's amazing to see babies.
Oh, so these are two separate processes that he came up with, but he came up with loads
of processes.
Yeah.
So, one of them was getting cow's milk wheat, malt flour, and potassium bicarbonate, and
then mixed them together so it became, like, a powder with milk in it.
And then the other thing was a way of getting beef extracts out of beef.
And so you could get, you could squeeze this beef so much that it was a really concentrated
bit of beef.
And then that became basically bavaro and that oxal cubes.
And this guy, no one's heard of him, but he's done so many, like, but sorry, is that so mermaids
just sort of, like, someone's taking a stake and they've squeezed out like a sponge?
No, mermaids more use space, but it's the same process.
Yeah.
Cool.
So you take some use, didn't you squeeze it?
Yeah.
Yeah, bring it out.
But was, what, I thought was the baby food that was beef related?
I think babies did get given, that was, that I think called, was it pap or panada?
Oh, pap is like bread and milk, isn't it?
I think it's just bread and milk mixed or something.
I think it covers a few different things.
So you could be milk and flour or melted butter.
And then sometimes children would just fed her kind of meaty broth.
I think no one really knew what came after milk for a long time.
I think you just experimented with it differently.
Yeah.
Like meaty broth.
It must be nourishing because it's meat, you know?
Yeah.
I was reading that in the 1700s in Paris, not many people actually breastfed their own children.
They, it was a big thing of outsourcing wet, no, for wet nurses.
Oh, yeah.
So there was a survey that was conducted by the police chief of Paris in 1780, another creepy
police.
Yeah.
He'd been promoted from looking at Nickers to look at their boots.
The survey revealed that of the 21,000 children that were born annually in the city, 17,000
were sent to the countryside to a wet nurse.
Wow.
There's a huge amount.
And then there was a condition that if you were sending your kid to a wet nurse and you
had the money, you would pay them to exclusively breastfeed and look after your kid.
Yeah.
But these wet nurses had kids.
So they had to outsource their kids to poor people out in the country.
Yeah.
So there was a, there was a lower rung of wet nurses who were the sort of more, you know,
for the poverty stricken.
Yeah.
So kids were just being pushed further and further into the country of France.
I was like on a boot.
It was.
So I had no idea.
It was so widespread.
Yeah.
That 90% of people were not breastfed by their own mother.
And also you have this image of wet nurses as being for a rich family and, you know, you pay
for the wet nurse.
But largely, especially when people started industrialising, it was for poor families and it
was for people going and working in factories.
And then, you know, you know, nothing you could do with your kid.
It's a rough gig though.
They were very looked down on the wet nurses.
Well, they.
Yeah.
Because women were a real job.
They're doing an important job.
It's a really important job.
And if you've insisted that you latch your own baby on another woman's tit, then teet,
teet.
Well, either.
Ten tees.
Ten of them.
Yeah.
The least you can do is show some gratitude.
I think you're absolutely right.
Thank you.
So I was looking at weaning and breastfeeding and things like that.
I didn't know that, um, and there was a big study of this in the 1950s by a scientist
called Ian Wicks.
And he found that Renaissance Europeans had fed their infants with a cow's horn with a leather
nipple attached to it, which is a pretty cool way of being fed.
Yeah.
I mean, I think also in Europe around that time, they were going directly from the cow,
weren't they?
Like, you would just attach a child to a cow or a goat or something.
Yeah, a really goat.
Wow.
They used to have goats and orphanages.
So the Mulan Rouge might have had the goat out during the matinee performance for kids.
The goat would just go around the audience as like a shot girl.
Okay, it is time for our final fact of the show.
And that is my fact.
My fact this week is that the reason movies include that all person's fictitious disclaimer
at the front is because one of Rasputin's assassins successfully sued MGM for not accurately
depicting the events of Rasputin's murder.
What?
Yeah.
I mean, that is...
What's amazing about this fact, I think, is Rasputin feels to me or felt to me like about
500 years ago.
Yeah.
And movies like Mulan Rouge was so recent, they feel like a modern day thing, but they're connected.
They're connected.
It feels insane that such a historical event is, yeah, it has...
So when was the...
Was the Rasputin died in what, 19...
16...
16?
I believe it was 1916.
Okay.
The movie came out in 1933.
That's a relatively early movie.
It's an oldie.
It's in the first 20%.
Isn't it?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
It wasn't the first 20%.
No.
I'd say it's the second 20%.
But I think within the first half.
Oh, certainly the first half.
The first half, oh, yeah.
Depending on when you're listening to this podcast actually.
If you're...
Sorry, Dan.
So, Prince Felix Yusupov, he was a Russian aristocrat and he was one of the people who
helped to kill Rasputin.
He didn't get that much trouble other than to be exiled from the country.
So it was while he was exiled and he was living with his wife.
That this movie came out, which was based on a few biographies and so on, called Rasputin
and the Empress.
So in it, they name him differently, but it's clearly him who they are depicting.
And he wanted to sue them because he thought, oh, you're depicting me really badly.
Obviously he couldn't.
He was an assassin.
He was a guy who killed the lead character in the movie.
So what he had to do was sue them via his wife because in the movie, they create a scene,
deliberately falsified where Yusupov's wife is raped by Rasputin after being hypnotized
and that never happened in real life.
So she ends up suing them for a lot of money.
They lose the case and MGM is part of the court case and part of losing it generally.
They have to put this in the front of movies, which all other movie houses do as well,
to avoid being sued by real life characters in movies.
It's astonishing.
Yeah.
You know, this country, the BBC documentary, it's not a documentary, it's kind of a pseudo-documentary
comedy about these, this brother and sister couple who live in this really rubbish bit of
the country and their lives are horrible and have a grim time.
Anyway, they forgot to rename their teacher.
So they gave the character in this same name as their teacher and now everyone chouts at
the teacher in school and it's apparently ruined his life.
Yeah, I'm not surprised.
And she recently apologized from an award ceremony saying, yeah, sorry, but yeah, ruined
his life.
Whoops.
Sorry, not that.
Sorry, check out my trophy.
That basically was.
They used to have that thing called the small penis defense.
Do you remember that?
The idea is you put someone in your book and you make it so it's obviously them, but you
say this character has a small penis and then when you go to court, you could say, well,
it's obviously not this person because my character has a very small penis.
It doesn't feel like a crowbar in certain novels when, you know, when it popped up in Pride
and Pregidance made way through.
I was extremely surprised.
This is a Harry Potter.
Tiny wand.
Well, one person who didn't have a very small penis was Russ Futon.
Very nice.
Well, allegedly, he didn't have a very small penis.
Yeah.
Well, some people said he did about one doctor's report from 1912 or 13 said he had completely
shriveled testicles.
Really?
That's completely different.
That's literally a different ballgame.
I think you just assume if they've said shriveled testicles, perhaps you assume that the
other part is shriveled as well, but you're right.
It didn't get better.
You would have referenced that.
You're right.
And perhaps the testicles just luck shriveled because it was so enormous.
You're absolutely right.
The compliment in disguise.
His penis is in various different museums in Russia.
Apparently, Polina was telling me, my wife was telling me, yeah, there's lots of different
like small towns with their own little museums and lots of different ones have his penis
as well.
Oh, okay.
So he's basically things that arm his penis.
Yeah.
It's so large that they were able to actually chop a healthy chunk out pretty, so I thought
you meant.
Should we say who he was?
That's beautiful.
Yeah.
So he's a guy from that song.
That's right.
It's sort of monk believed to be a mystic who had this weird relationship with the last
zars of Russia.
Zarnickles II and his wife and their son and could allegedly cure their son's hemophilia
and was eventually off for, you know, this very dodgy influence.
He seemed to have over the whole court and over the zar.
Yeah.
Also, he had had a phone call earlier that day, Rasputin with a death threat.
You don't think of Rasputin receiving phone calls, do you?
He loved the telephone.
Did he?
I think of him with phone calls because that was famously how he used to cure the zaravitch.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
But he loved phone calls.
He and his daughter used to make nuisance phone calls all the time, whereas she used
to do dirty voices to the men who would answer the phone and whenever he ever was on
the phone, he would always do squats, twels and stamps while he was on the phone.
He'd always dance around while he was on the phone.
Whoa.
That's great.
Isn't it?
And just to add, because you just said earlier, the circumstances of his death, which
have now been debunked, and you talked about the cyanide.
But just to give the full story of how he died, the story goes of the myth is that he
was fed enough cyanide to kill them several times over.
He was beaten severely with clubs.
He was then shot.
He was then stabbed repeatedly.
He was then shot twice more.
But after that, when he should have been dead, he got up to strangle his attackers, and
they eventually threw him in a river rolled up in a carpet.
Yeah.
And not only that when his body, and I think this was the case, when his body resurfaced
a few days later, his lungs were filled with water, which showed that when he was landed
in the river, he was still alive and breathing in the water.
I think it was the carpet that did it, and the, sorry, are we going to say what actually
happened?
Well, just the account of the poison aim, because this is all used to pass account as well.
So when he arrived, they gave him loads of cakes, which were poisoned with potassium cyanide.
It had no effect.
So then they gave him a glass of wine, laced with potassium cyanide.
That had no effect.
Then they gave him a second glass of wine, laced with potassium cyanide, and they said,
are you feeling unwell?
And he said, yes.
My head is heavy, and I have a burning sensation in my stomach.
So they thought, great.
We're well on the way.
So they gave him a third glass of wine, laced with potassium cyanide, at which point
he perked up and said, oh, thank you, I'm feeling much better off with that glass of wine.
Then the police were called, then the black eyes.
At this point, they've run out of potassium cyanide, and they're really wondering what to
do next.
But there are all these theories about why the poison didn't work.
One is that they just had old poison.
One is that he was given sugar, like it was cakes and wine, given to him, and that binds
with the act of ingredient, which makes it much less poisonous.
And then there's another theory that used to be made up all of this, and actually they
shot him in through him in the room.
I think that's the one that we kind of think about, because there was a confession by one
of the conspirators later on who said that we didn't poison him at all.
Yeah.
Just shot him.
But it fed the myth, didn't it, of this crazy, invulnerable monk who was sinister and has
some weird malign influence over the Zah.
And sort of really sordid, and it's really difficult reading about Rasputin now because
we know that he was such a victim of propaganda at this time, so all the first-hand accounts
about how sex-crazy he was as a weird nymphomaniac guy.
We don't know.
I mean, I think there's a new biography that Francis Welch wrote, I think.
But even then, I think, at the time, there was such a hardcore propaganda drive against
Rasputin.
Should we not just go with the rumours, though, because it's going to be funny?
Should we not just say that the reason the women of St. Petersburg loved having sex with
him so much is he had enormous water, his penis, but he had sex with them.
They got an immediate orgasm.
Should we not say that kind of thing?
We can't say it.
I'm going to kill everything you said.
Actually, James, have you actually seen this what yourself?
Look, you can have, like, various things are not true.
He did not get out his willy in a restaurant and wavered around to prove that he was Rasputin.
We haven't.
We think that did not happen.
I've never heard that one, actually.
So this was where...
This was in 1915.
This was shortly before he died, you know.
He was under observation by the police and he goes to a restaurant with a group of followers
and starts bragging about his relationship with the Zahs wife and implying that he's slept
with the Zahs wife and someone asks him, "Are you really Rasputin?"
He replies by getting his penis out, saying, "This is what Rasputin does, therefore I must
be Rasputin."
But it's a bad proof because it's him saying, "Look, if I wasn't Rasputin, would I really
be getting my knob out in a restaurant?"
Who is the president we spoke about that did that as well?
Lyndon Johnson, let's get his penis out of there.
Yeah, over time.
But he did it in response to journalists, didn't he?
Yeah, I think so.
It's not a good way of proving it because it's such an easy trick to imitate.
That's true.
Maybe you've got to have the big penis to do it.
And the massive what?
Yeah.
It's so hard to tell from the other side of the restaurant.
Equally hard to enjoy your meal afterwards.
Can you imagine Lyndon Johnson on the Andrew Mah Show on a Sunday morning?
Well, I'll tell you, that's much Andrew.
Anyway, he didn't do that.
He didn't do that.
He was a myth about the restaurant.
There were all these rumors about his genitals, and people kept on wanting to pull them off.
I think maybe the two are related, though I don't know, but there was a monk called Iliador
who, first of all, he claimed that he'd got 120 bombs, that he was going to use to kill
Rasputin.
And then, by some course of events, he apparently lost these bombs and ended up chasing
after him with an axe and telling him he was going to castrate him.
I don't know what happened with the 120 there.
There was another holy man who was called Blessed Mitya who ended up punching Rasputin
in the face, and then trying to pull off his testicles manually.
There was a bishop called Hermagan, who grabbed Rasputin's penis, screamed that he was the
Antichrist and proceeded to beat him with a huge crucifix.
Do you know who almost got the gig before Rasputin?
Which, what do you mean the gig?
So, the gig was basically the Countess Sire, she was…
A spiritual advisor.
Yes, spiritual advisor, she was very into…
So, it must be someone we've heard of.
It is definitely someone we've heard of.
Lord Bernard Shaw.
No.
It's a great guest.
Lovely guest.
Of course.
No.
Lovely guest, but no.
Harry Houdini.
Wow.
Oh my god, what a guest.
That's an incredible guest.
What?
Yeah.
Harry Houdini was overdoing shows there, and they met up, and there's that famous thing
of Arthur Conan Doyle not believing that Harry Houdini wasn't really magic.
Same thing with the Tsar and the Countess.
They thought he was genuinely doing magic tricks offered him in the world.
So, what an alternative universe, Harry Houdini is Rasputin, that's even right.
He probably could have got out of the river, that's the terrible thing.
Yeah.
A lot rolled me up in a carpet.
No problem.
That's insane.
Yeah, and he was… I've read this in a Harry Houdini book, he was offered the role afterwards
as well.
So, we've lost our advisor.
I don't know if you saw the papers, but we're looking for someone new.
And Houdini was asked once again, in turn around.
If you said no, the first time, I think that second time, if you had read the papers, it
would be a pretty hard no.
Yeah, that's true.
Do you know why they think Rasputin was so efficacious in curing Azaz Himophilia?
Well, yeah.
So, Himophilia is where your blood is very thin, and if you cut yourself accidentally, you
don't stop bleeding for a very long time, so very, very dangerous.
It's possible that Rasputin just said in his kind of holy mystic way, "Chuck
away all the medicine you've been given.
I'm going to be looking after you."
And it's possible that some of the medicine was aspirin.
Oh, really?
And aspirin, yeah.
Thin to blood.
As a side effect.
So, it may be that there was a grain of truth in Rasputin's advice, but not for the reason,
obviously, that he was mystical.
Just like that.
Yeah, it's cool.
Also, there's a thought that maybe when he was hypnotising over the phone, and someone
is in person, it has a relaxing effect, which it does, like meditating.
And then if that lowers your blood pressure and lowers your heart rate, then you're going
to bleed less.
So, it helps dissipate it in that way.
Interesting, yeah.
But, you know, conventional medicine is probably advisable these days.
Oh, use this.
Where?
We were talking earlier about Maria Rasputin, his daughter in the phone calls.
So, after this happened, she moved away and became a lion tamer.
It was so close.
She really?
Yeah, she did.
That was one of her jobs.
She was also a dancer in Paris, in the beginning of the 1900s, as well.
Yeah.
Unfortunately, I've not seen if it was there, but yeah, so that's what she did for a living.
Made a minute.
Rasputin.
Everyone said he smelled like a goat.
Yes.
Didn't they?
They did.
That was one of his things.
He never washed.
He once didn't change his underwear for six months.
Yeah.
Everyone who met him said he smelled like a goat, who was with La Goulou.
So, you saying maybe she Maria Rasputin was the goat?
No, I'm saying.
And Rasputin, the elder, was disguised.
He was disguised as a goat.
So, live.
They never pulled him out of the river at all.
Exactly.
And that goat was just Rasputin in a carpet.
Huge.
It's such a fool from grace, isn't it?
It's not so nice.
He's hinting at entertaining the children at the Sunday matinee.
Yeah.
Is anyone here?
He's a failure.
Put it away.
We believe who you are.
OK, that's it.
That is all of our facts.
Thank you so much for listening.
If you'd like to get in contact with any of us about the things that we have said over
the course of this podcast, we can be found on our Twitter accounts.
I'm on @Sriberland.
Andy.
@Andryhunteram.
James.
At James Harkin.
And Shazinski.
You can email podcasts@ky.com.
Yep.
Or you can go to our group account @nosuchthing or our website.
No such thing as a fish.
We have everything up there, including our previous episodes.
We have upcoming tour dates, and we even have a behind-the-scenes documentary that you
can find the link to to buy.
Do that, please.
OK.
We'll see you again next week.
Goodbye.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
(upbeat music)